Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.


Answer:Programming language is set of instructructions given to the computer to complete specific task.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.

Answer:The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter (java),
a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc),
and some other development tools.





What is IDE?
A.

Answer:An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that helps programmers
to devolope code.


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.

Answer:Eclipse,  Intelij, NetBeans.


Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?

Answer: A class is a template used to create objects and to define object data types and methods.

What is object?

Answer: An instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?

Answer: main method.

Why main is static?

Answer: Main is always static, so the compiler can call it without creating an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

Answer: Object Class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?

Answer:The "path" variable is used by the operating system and the classpath variable, on the other hand, is used in Java programming.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Answer: An abstract class is like a partially complete template for a class. An interface is like a contract that specifies a set of
methods that a class must implement.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

Answer: You cannot create objects directly from either an interface or an abstract class because they are incomplete
and not meant to be instantiated on their own.

what is Access Specifier?

Answer: An access specifier, in simple terms, is like a permission slip for code.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.


Answer: Object Oriented Object.Class and Object,Encapsulation,Inheritance,Polymorphism,Abstraction,
Method Overriding and Overloading,Constructor and Destructor.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?

Answer: a Java package is like a folder or directory that helps organize related classes and interfaces into a group.
By default, Java automatically imports a few packages into every Java program without you needing to explicitly write
an import statement.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.

Answer: Application Programming Interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?

Answer:Java does not support multiple inheritance in the way some other programming languages.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

Answers:Method overloading is a feature in Java that allows you to define multiple methods in the same class with
the same name but different parameter lists.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

Answer: In Java, exceptions are unexpected or exceptional events that can occur during the execution of a program.
try and catch and throw can be used for exceptions handling.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?


Answer: In Java, the static keyword is used to define class-level members that belong to the class
itself rather than to instances of the class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









